thank you so much james and thank you
nika and thank you everybody who's
spoken and who is still to speak so
eloquently about david
you know david used to say that
anarchism was not his identity but
rather something he did and that simple
description really
described his approach to life
so many people have also already spoke
about his remarkable playful finale and
you know that rare academic who believed
that ideas were not just for
contemplating in an ivory tower
but that they found their truest meaning
when put into practice
unlike so many others in the academy who
are increasingly
narrowed in their scope of what they can
consider because of the nature of
academic specialization
david was never subject to the kant of
the university he had a brilliant and
plastic mind
he ranged far and wide in synthesizing
ideas
and the ideas were really for him the
basis of building a new enchanted life
in which we could all be free and equal
so i want to focus for a moment on one
of the areas that he and i worked
particularly closely together on
rojava
and why he thought it was so important
that those of us living in the west
not only pay close attention to the
radically democratic project there
but support it with every ounce of
energy we could summon
as an anthropologist david had a
particularly keen understanding of how
special the multi-ethnic egalitarian
society being built in rojava really is
especially with regard to women's
liberation and the fact that in rojava
women really do play an equal role in
running every aspect of society from the
political to the economic to the social
as an activist he knew how much
education
patience and understanding it takes to
really put the ideals of direct
democracy into practice just as
anarchism is not something you simply
believe in but rather something that you
do
david believes that as activists we must
actively support our sisters and
brothers around the world as they
struggle to bring new
worlds into being
his father kenneth fought for the
republican the spanish revolution of
1936. david was so proud of his father's
activism and it was an example that
david lived by as witnessed by his close
relationship to rojava which he not only
visited more than once
but also wrote about continuously
that spirit of internationalism that so
infused david's thinking
is unfortunately disappearing from great
parts of the left today
we've narrowed our interests so much
that the vision of a worldwide united
working class what we might perhaps in
david's world's words call a united 99
percent that animated the
internationalism of socialist and
anarchist movements of the past
it's been forgotten by many on the left
especially in the united states the
country of david's birth
elements of the left are so preoccupied
with the west's history of imperialism
that they've lost the forest for the
trees and fail to see
that in syria for example the presence
of a small number of american troops
far from being imperialist
is preventing a much more thinning
imperialist power that of turkey from
crushing the most important project in
self-governance of this century the
kurdish-led autonomous administration of
north and east syria also known of
course as rojava
in the united states the situation is so
serious
that a new elected so-called progressive
to the united states congress jamal
bowman has introduced a resolution to
remove the few hundred american troops
remaining in syria
as some of you may have seen in recent
news reports this is a move that would
benefit two people
russia's vladimir putin
who is actively trying to gain hegemony
in the region and the authoritarian
turkish ruler erdogan who is profoundly
threatened of course by the egalitarian
women-led society of rojava just across
the border from his
turkey the fact that bowman has received
campaign donations from eight members of
the turkish american national steering
committee makes this legislation even
more egregious
if david were alive today i know he
would be urging all of us to do
everything we can to make our voices
heard in opposition to this dangerous
reactionary and unnuanced approach to
foreign policy
as he said many times to me
we have in rojava as with the zabatistas
in chiapas a living breathing hope for a
better future for all of us
if we don't care deeply as david and his
father kenneth did about our brothers
and sisters
in far-off lands who are fighting for
the same values as we are
then we are not really the left
libertarians
that we think of ourselves as in the
true tradition of international
solidarity
the beasts movements supposed to embody
it's time for us to carry david's values
forward in our everyday lives to
actively stand with the people of rojava
and everywhere who need our help but in
this case by pressing our leaders to
curb turkey's aggression and to give
this region the political recognition it
deserves and a seat at the negotiating
table the future of syria
do it to honor david's memory do it
because it's the right thing to do do it
because if we do not we potentially lose
one of the very few models we have today
of a non-sectarian left libertarian
society one that offers the inspiration
that we all desperately need to keep
pushing forward with our own dreams of a
better world
do it because david isn't here to do it
for us
thank you